# `String` Object
- When a `String` object is being created, it is making an immutable object that cannot be changed.
- Each time we wish to alter the `String`, a new `String` object is created that contains the modifications.

Java Provides two options for `Strings` as an object:
- `StringBuffer`
- `StringBuilder`

Both hold `Strings` that can be modified after they are created.

The `String`, `StringBuffer` and `StringBuilder` classes are defined in `java.lang`. Thus, they are available to all programs automatically.

# `String` Constructors
```java
String S = new String();
String S = new String(char[] charArray);
String S = new String(char[] charArray, int startIndex, int numChars) //where numChars is the number of chars in the String
String S = new String(String strObj);
String S = new String(byte[] asciiChars);
String S = new String(byte[] asciiChars, int startIndex, int numChars);
```

# String `length()` and Literal
String `length()` is a method that returns the length of the string passed.

String literal allows us to call methods on a quoted string as it were an object reference.

## String Concatenation
```java
s1 = "string_1"; s2 = "string_2";
System.out.println(s1+s2);

//output:
"string_1string_2"
```

This also works with other data types:
```java
String s1 = "abc";
int i1 = 2;
System.out.println(s1+i1);
//will output:
"abc2"
```

## String Conversion `toString()`
- Every class implements `toString()` because it is defined by `Object`.

We can override `toString()` method in classes and provide our own representation.

This will change the output when we use methods like `System.out.println(x)` to be the `toString()` output of the class that `x` belongs to.

## `String` Methods
- ```
	char String.charAt(x);
	```

  - To extract a single character from a string at index position `x`
 
- ```
  void String.getChars(int sourceStart, int sourceEnd, char target[], int targetStart);
  ```
	- Here `sourceStart` is the index of the starting position of extraction
	- `sourceEnd` is the last position NOT including the `sourceEnd`^th^ position.
	- `target[]` is the target char array where the extracted characters should be added to.
	- `targetStart` is the index position starting at which the characters will be copied.

- ```
  byte[] String.getBytes();
  ```
  	- Alternative to `getChars()` which gives a byte array and uses the default character to byte conversions.

- ```
  char[] String.toCharArray();
  ```
  	- Converts all the characters in a string to a character array.

- ```
  boolean String.equals(Object str)
  ```
  - `str` is the String Object <font color=red> not sure if other datatypes get converted using their `toString()` method</font> being compared with the invoking `String` object.
  - returns `true` if the strings contain the same characters, in the same order and in the same case.

- ```
  boolean String.equalsIgnoreCase(String str)
  ```
  	- Returns `true` if the strings contain the same characters, in the same order, ignoring case.


- ```java
  boolean String.regionMatches(int startIndex, String str2, int str2StartIndex, int numChars);
  boolean String.regionMatches(boolean ignoreCase, int startIndex, String str2, int str2StartIndex, int numChars;)
  ```

	- Compares a specific region inside `String` to a region inside `str2` for `numChars` number of characters from their respective `StartIndex`es
 
- ```
  boolean String.startsWith(String str);
  boolean String.startswith(String str, int startIndex)
  ```
  - Determines whether `String` begins with a string `str`.
  - Starts with `startIndex` index of `String` in the second form.
 
- ```
  boolean String.endsWith(String str);
  ```
  - Determines if the string ends with a string `str`

 
## Difference b/w `equals()` and `==`
- The `equals()` method compares the characters inside a `String` object.
- The `==` operator checks whether the two objects are refering to the same instance.

# Comparison of Strings
- ```int String.compareTo(String str)
  ```
  - If a `String` is alphabetically less than `str` then the value of `compareTo()` is less than 0.
  - Similiarly if it is alphabetically ahead of `str` then the value is greater than 0.
  - If they are equal, the value is 0.

**Note:** Uppercase Letters come before Lowercase Letters

- ```java
  int String.compareToIgnoreCase(String str)
  ```
  - Similiar to `compareTo()`, only this ignore case.
 
# Searching Strings
- ```
  int String.indexOf(char ch)
  int String.indexOf(String str)
  ```
	- returns the index of the first occurence of ch (if it exists) and `-1` otherwise
	- Similiar for substring `str`
- ```
  int String.lastIndexOf(char ch)
  int Strin.lastIndexOf(String str)
  ```
	- returns the index of the last occurence of ch (if it exists) and `-1` otherwise
	- Similiar for substring `str`