# `super` keyword
- if a superclass keeps its data members private, then there would be no way for subclass to access or initialize its parents instance variabls.
- The solution is the use of the keyword `super`.
- Whenever a subclass needs to refer to its immediate superclass, it can do so by use of the kyword `super`.
- `super` has two general forms:
	- For accessing constructors.
	- For accessing hidden members of superclass.

## Syntax of `super`
- A subclass can call a constructor defined by its superclass by use of the following form of `super`:
	
- `super(arg_list);`
	- Here `arg_list` specifies any arguments needed by the constructor in the superclass.
- `super()` must always be the first statement executed inside a subclass' constructor.

- `super` can also be used to as a second use.
- `super.member` is used to access the member names of a superclass are hidden by a members by the same name in the subclass.

# Method Overriding
- Overriding is a feature that allows a subclass or child class to provide a specific implementation of 

# Dynamic Method Dispatch
- Mechanism by which a call to an overriden function is resolved at run time, rather than compile time. (run-time polymorphism)
- Uses the principle: a superclass reference variable can refer to a subclass object.
- It is the type of the object being referred to (not the type of the reference variable) that determines which version of an overriden method will be executed.

## Example
```java
class Dog{
	public void bark(){
		System.out.println("Woof");
	}
}

class Hound extends Dog{
	public void sniff{
		System.out.println("Sniff");
	}
	public void bark(){
		System.out.println("Bowl");
	}
}

public class OverridingTest{
	public static void main(String args[]){
		Dog dog = new Hound();
		dog.bark();
	}
}
```

- In the example above, the dog variable is declared to be a Dog.
- During compile time, the compiler checks if the Dog class has the bark() method.
- As long as the Dog class has the bark() method, the code compiles.
- At run time, a Hound is created and assigned to dog.
- The JVM knows that dog is referring to the obejct of Hound so it calls the bark() method of Hound.
- This is called Dynamic Polymorphism.
