# Introduction
- To process large amounts of data, we need a data structure known as Array.
- An array is a collection of **similiar** data elements.
	- These elements have the same data type
- The elements of the array are stored in consecutive memory locations and are referenced by an index (subscript)
	- subscript is an ordinal number that is used to identify an element of the array.

## Declaration of Arrays
- An array must be declared before being used.
- Declaring an array means specifying three things:
	- Data type
	- Name
	- Size
```c
type name[size];

\\Example:
int marks[10]
```

## Accessing Elements of an Array
- For accessing individual elements of an array we use its index / subscript (beginning from 0).
	- Example: `array[3]` will give the 4^th^ element of the array.
- The subscript must be an integral value or an expression that evaluated to an integral value.
- To access multiple elements, we use loops.

## Calculating the address of Array Elements
- Since an array stores all its elements in consecutive memory locations, we can calculate the address of other data elements if we know the base address and the index of the first element (usually, 0) <font color=red>check if there is case where index $\neq$ 0</font>.
- formula for calculating the address of array elements is:
```c
A[element] = Base_Address + type_size(element_index-first_index)
```

# Storing Values in an Array
## Initializing Arrays during declaration
- Arrays are initialized by writing:
```c
type array[size]={val_1, val_2, ...};
```

- When initializing during the time of declaration, size of the array can be ommited.
```c
// Example
int marks[] = {90, 85, 78};
```

## Input values from keyboard
- This is done by using a for loop where we take the input of one element at a time.
```c
int i, marks[10];
for (i=0, i<10, i++){
	scanf("%d",&marks[i]);
}
```

## Copying from another array
<font color=red>in pdf it is mentioned as "Assigning Values to Individual Elements"</font>
```c
int i, array1[10], array2[10];
for(i=0,i<10,i++){
	array2[i]=array1[i];
}
```

# Operations on Arrays
- The following operations can be performed on arrays:
	- Inserting
	- Deleting
	- Searching
	- Sorting, etc.

## Insertion
### 1) Inserting at the end
```c
array[length+1]=element_to_be_inserted
```

### 2) Inserting at a position `pos`

```c
for(i=length-1;i>=pos-1;i--){
	arr[i+1]=arr[i];
}
arr[pos-1]=num;
n++;
```
Basically, starting from the last most element we are shifting each element one place higher and setting the element at index `pos` = `num`

## Deleting
### 1) Deleting element at the end

<font color=red>
set upper_bound = upper_bound - 1
</font>

### 2) Deleting element at posittion, `pos`

```c
for (i=pos-1;i<n-1;i++){
	arr[i] = arr[i+1];
}
n--;
```


## Searching
- There are two main methods for searching:
	- Linear
	- Binary

### Linear Searching
- Works by comparing every element of the array one by one till a match is found. (from the first element)
- Also called sequential search.
- Mostly used to search an unordered list of elements.
- Slow on a large array.

```c
for(i=0;i<length;i++){
	if arr[i]==num{
		pos=i+1;
		printf("%d found at position, %d", num, pos);
		break;
	}
}

//No idea what this is for:
if(pos==-1){
	printf("\n %d DOES NOT EXIST in the array", num);
}
```

### Binary Searching
- If the array is sorted then binary is a better and efficient alternative to linear searching.
```c
int found=0
int beg=0, end=length; //lower & upper bound respectively
while (beg<=end){
	mid=(beg+end)/2;
	if (array[mid]==num){
		printf("%d found at %d", num, mid);
		found=1;
		break;
	}
	if (arr[mid>num]){
		end=mid-1;
	}
	else{
		beg=mid+1;
	}
}
if (found==0){
	printf("\n %d DOES NOT EXIST in the array", num);
}
return 0;
```

# 2-D Arrays (Matrices)
- A 2-D array is specified using two subscripts where one subscript denotes row and the other columns.
`data_type array[row][column]`

## Declaring a 2-D Array
<font color=red>Check</font>

There are two main ways of storing a 2-D array in memory

1. In the row major order, the elements of the first row are stored before the elements of the second and third row.
2. In the column major order, the elements of the first column are stored before the elements of the second and third column.

## Address of elements in 2-D array
1. If elements are stored in row major order:
```c
Address(A[i][j])=Base_address + type_size{(rows*j)+i}
```

2. If elements are stored in column major order:
```c
Address(A[i][j])=base_address + type_size{(columns * i)+j}
```

## Initialization of elements in a 2-D array:
<font color=red>check how to define elements during declaration

type array_name[size][size]={list of values};
^^^^Not Sure if Correct^^^^</font>

### Input from keyboard
```c
for (i=0; i<rows; i++){
	for (j=0; j<columns; j++){
		scanf("%d", &array[i][j]);
	}
}
```

# Operations on 2-D Arrays:
1. Sum / Difference
	- Only possible when order of A and B are equal
	- $C_{ij}=A_{ij}\pm B_{ij}$
2. Product
	- Possible when $A_\text{columns}=B_\text{rows}$
	- $C_{ij}=\sum A_{ik}\times B_{kj}$ for $k=1$ to $k<n$
3. Transpose
	- $C_{ij}=A_{ji}$