# Python Documentation
**Note:** The information provided here may or may not be correct as this is my interpretation of python when learning from sources such as IITM DS Course, Sumita Arora, w3schools.com, geeksforgeeks.org and others...

# 1) Tokens
- smallest individual lexical unit in a program is known as.
- The lexical unit refers to individual words and punctuation marks.
- Individual tokens, together make components of a program such as statements or expressions, etc.
- Python has the following tokens
	- Keywords
	- Identifiers
	- Literals
	- Operators
	- Punctuators
## 1.1) Keywords
- A keyword is a word having special meaning reserved by the programming language.
```python
False None True and as assert break class continue def del
elif else except finally for in is lambda nonlocal not
or pass raise return try while with yield
```

## 1.2) Identifiers (Names)
- fundamental building blocks of a program and are used as the general terminology for names given to different parts of the program *viz.* variables, objects, classes, functions, lists, dictionaries etc.
- Identifiers follow the following rules:
	- They are case sensitive, i.e. var1 and Var1 are two different variables.
	- Must <u>start</u> with a letter or underscore. (cannot start with a number)
	- It can <u>contain</u> alpha-numeric characters & underscore (`a-Z + 0-9 + _`)
	- It <u>cannot contain</u> any special character apart from underscore.
	- varName cannot be any of the Python keywords like `if, True, lambda`
	- We generally use camelCase for variables, but we can also use PascalCase & snake_case

## 1.3) Literals
- The value that is constant & cannot be changed
- They can be any of the following types:
	- String - 'Louis'
	- Numeric - 666
	- Boolean - True
	- Special Literal - None
	- Literal Collections

### 1.3.1) String Literal
- Single, Double and Triple quotes all apply to strings.
#### Escape Characters
- Python allows you to have certain nongraphic characters in string values. Nongraphic are those which cannot be typed from the keyboard (no character is typed when the keys are pressed, only an action takes place).
- Inserting special characters are not possible in a string, for this we use escape characters
- An escape character is a `/` followed by the character we wish to insert.

|Code|Result|
|:---:|:---:|
|`\\`|Backslash|
|`\' and \"`|Single & Double Quotes
|`\n`|New Line|
|`\t`|Horizontal Tab (TAB)|
|`\r`|Carriage Return CR|
|`\a`|ASCII Bell (BEL)|
|`\b`|ASCII Backspace (BS)|
|`\f`|ASCII Form Feed (FF)|
|`\N{name}`|Character named name in the Unicode database (Unicode only)|
|`\uxxxx`|Character with 16-bit hex value xxxx (Unicode only)|
|`\Uxxxxxxxx`|Character with 32-bit hex value xxxxxxxx (Unicode Only)|
|`\v`|ASCII Vertical Tab (VT)|
|`\ooo`|Octal Value|
|`\xhh`|Hex Value|


# `print()` function
Syntax:
`print(object(s), sep=separator, end=end, file=file, flush=flush)`

|Parameter|Description|Default|Requirement|
|:-----:|:------|:------:|:----:|
|`object(s)`|Any object(s), which we wish to print. Will be converted to string before printed|-|Required|
|`sep=`|Specifies how to seperate the objects, if multiple objects are present.|`sep=' '`|Optional|
|`end=`| Specifies how to end the print block after function execution is complete.|`end='\n'`|Optional|
|`file`| <font color=red> ????</font>|`file=sys.stdout`|Optional|
|`flush`| Boolean, specifying if the output is flushed (True) or buffered (False). <font color=red> ????</font>|`flush=False`|Optional|


- Therefore, if you wish to not include spaces for only one set of objects we can use the following methods:
    - Concatenation: we ignore the default value of `sep` by concatenating the strings with variable such that: `print('string1' + var1 + 'string2'.....)`
    - Using `{placeholder}`: Basically, we type out the variable as part of the string using `{name}` as a placeholder then format it to occupy said place.
    e.g. `print("How old are you, {name}?".format(name=a))`
    - <font color=red>Using %s: Converts variable to string????</font>

# `def` keyword
```python
def func_name: #header
	code #body
```
- `func_name` follows the same rules as variables.
- Advised to avoid having a variable and function with the same name to avoid confusion and will lead to errors such as `type()` or assignement
- If function is called in main before def it shows error.
	- but if a function is called in def of another function before def it runs properly <font color=red>why?</font>
- Parameter is the variable that arguments are assigned to when defining a function.
- Arguments are the values given to the function during the function call.

# #Arrange Later
## Leading zeros
- leading zeroes are not valid in python:
	- e.g. `02` prints error
	- Syntax Error: leading zeroes in decimal integer are not permitted; use the following for diffrent number systems
		- `0b` - Binary
		- `0o` - Octal
		- `0x` - Hexadecimal
## State Diagram
- arrow from variable to the value its referencing:
- Example:
$$
\boxed{
\text{n}\longrightarrow \text{"17 years"}
}
$$
## Expression
- Combination of values, variables & operators.
- A value / variable by itself is a valid expression.

## Statement
- Has an effect
- in general, statements dont have values.
- e.g. creating a variable or displaying a value.

## Errors
Three main types of errors:
- Syntax Errors
- Runtime Errors
- Semantic Errors (Logic)


## Stack Diagram
- Similiar to state diagram but also show the function / main they belong to.

## Recursion
- A function that calls itself is said to be recursive.
- The process of executing said function is said to be recursion.